---
layout: post
title: Zechariah 10 - Restoration & redemption by the compassion of the Lord
tag: Zechariah
---

# Devotional meditation

Continuing from the previous chapter and the history of how the people of Israel sinned against the Lord, as the consequences of the discipline come to an end, God began to show compassion to the remnants. However His anger is hot against the shepherds & the leaders because they did not lead the people of Israel or teach to the follow the will of God, instead they were corrupted, took bribes, oppressed the weak & did not care for the people’s welfare. They were also mentioned in Micah chapter 3, Isaiah 56:11 “11 The dogs have a mighty appetite; they never have enough. The shepherds also have no understanding; they have all turned to their own way, to their own gain, one and all.”  & Ezekiel chapter 34. 
From the history, the compassion of the Lord can be seen so clearly, with warnings after warnings while the oppressed people cried to the Lord. God sent multiple prophets to speak to them but they rejected His prophets & His word being impenitent for their selfish gain. So they fell into captivity of Babylon & thrown into exile to the land of Babylon, though they were heavily oppressed but there were remnants and then came the Persian empire that overthrow the Babylonians that went overboard with their cruelty and oppression as well on the exile of the people of Judah/Israel. 
Back to the message of this chapter, God first reminded what happened in the first place that led to the destruction of the priestly nation, then like a parent to their children, their love pour out after the anger subsided as the children became repentant & sorry for their wrongs. The people of Judah & the tribes of Israel, the remnants from the exile can now return to Jerusalem and rebuild their nation, God restored their calling as a priestly nation in the era of Zechariah. It’s a process though…  sometimes the history repeat itself as we can read from history during the intertestamental period until now…2026. 


> Zechariah 10:6 NRSVue
> 6 I will strengthen the house of Judah, 
> and I will save the house of Joseph. 
> I will bring them back because I have compassion on them, 
> and they shall be as though I had not rejected them, 
> for I am the Lord their God, and I will answer them.

From the time of Abraham to Exodus, where God called the people of Israel out of Egypt, their destiny & calling was to become a kingdom of God in order that the world may know who is God. As an example, they received God’s commandment which derives from loving God & loving the neighbors in Matthew 22:37–40 “37 He said to him, “ ‘You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart and with all your soul and with all your mind.’ 38 This is the greatest and first commandment. 39 And a second is like it: ‘You shall love your neighbor as yourself.’ 40 On these two commandments hang all the Law and the Prophets.”” The principle of the laws derives from the heart that’s root out of love. 

It’s a great comfort that though there were consequences of sins, God will show compassion to the repentant & to those who trust in Him, God will redeem & God will restore for He cares for His flock. It also acts a reminder to keep our hearts in check, to always be humble & follow His will. 
