---
layout: post
title: Zechariah 9 - Impartiality of God & the King of Jerusalem
---

# Devotional meditation
Zechariah proclaimed an oracle against the land of Philistia, mostly the places near the sea area & Damascus, at the Northern Syria. The king of Aram oppressed the Israelites were recorded in 2 Kings 13 and the Lord heeded Jehoahaz when he inquired the Lord. They were wealthy and powerful given their influence commercially however the Lord will strip its possession, hurt its wealth into the sea & devoured by fire. Although they will be destroyed but Zechariah 9:7 “7 I will take away its blood from its mouth and its abominations from between its teeth; it, too, shall be a remnant for our God; it shall be like a clan in Judah, and Ekron shall be like the Jebusites.” gave them hope as there shall be remnants too for our God. With that context given, it’s a clear sign that the Lord is impartial, He accepts everyone that comes to Him. 
The prophecy then turns to the coming of the King of Jerusalem, triumphant and victorious, **humble** and **riding on a donkey**, which as believers or the contemporary readers of the Holy Bible in the New Testament, we know that this prophecy has been fulfilled where Jesus Christ is the King of Jerusalem, He did rode on the donkey before His journey on the calvary to the crucifixion for our sins, willingly. It speaks of powerful public signs as when lightning hits, the people of that land shall see it, when the trumpet sounds, the people within the area shall also hear it. It will not be in secret and those who respond to His calling will save them. 
This speaks of the mercy of God where He might punish people for sinning against Him but He also provide atonement & a way back to Him thru our Lord Jesus Christ. However it comes with a condition is that we accept Jesus Christ and let Him help us to reach repentance. This chapter disarms partiality & division as our God is an impartial God & He is faithful to those who are faithful to Him as well. 
